so here you are you're watching a
jailbreak movie and the main characters
have worked out an elaborate escape plan
successfully made it to freedom and
after finding out the guards just say
fine it's your legal right after all
boy the Shawshank Redemption would be a
pretty short movie huh 15 minutes tops
but in fact a situation like this is
possible in some countries of the world
in Germany Austria Belgium and Mexico
this desire to escape and fighting for
your Liberty is considered to be a basic
human nature and right not only is it
considered such by people but officially
recognized by law in Germany this law is
more than 130 years old as it dates to
1880s
to the times of the German Empire back
then the Reichstag or German government
declared the right to seek
self-liberation a basic human right
after an actual attempt to escape that
was taken by a Mexican burglar in 2002
who knew about the legal escape law a
local Supreme Court judge explained that
the person who tries to escape is
seeking Liberty and that is deeply
respected in the law an important detail
to note here is that there is a
difference between seeking Liberty and
actually having Liberty before you
decide to get those countries off your
travel list because it sounds like they
have criminals running around the
streets here's one important detail
while escapees won't be punished for the
escape itself they will be charged with
any crime they committed enroute
delivery for instance if someone decides
to break a window and just jump out of
it or break their cell bars they will
damage jail property even if they just
open the window they'll be charged with
stealing jail property and since they
prefer not to go naked the clothes they
be wearing and stealing or prison
property if they bribe a guard they'll
be punished for bribery if they get into
the first vehicle they find it'll be
theft and if they're ever spotted
somewhere by the police and captured
even years later they'll still have to
do the time they had left before their
escape
no good conduct prisoner sentence
reductions possible plus you can get
extra time for the crimes you've
committed during the grant escape so you
see it's practically impossible to break
free and remain unpunished even in the
countries when seeking Liberty from jail
is legal but still there are people who
managed to do it in the legal way if you
can say so in this context and use their
right to the fullest check this one out
in 1971 American businessman Joel Kaplan
managed to escape from Mexico City's
Santa Maria could titla prison along
with one other inmate it was all so well
planned and arranged obviously with
outside help that this real-life escape
sounds like something straight out of
Hollywood movies it was a regular
evening and most of the 136 jail guards
we're watching a movie with their guns
in their hands when a bell helicopter
landed in the prison yard they thought
it must have been some surprise official
visitor and didn't take any action
against the helicopter of course
meanwhile it took two prisoners from
cell number 10 less than two minutes to
get into the helicopter and escaped to
safety so none of them had to shoot or
bribe the guards they didn't damage
prison property and didn't steal a
vehicle to use for their escape in fact
the helicopter was private and not
rented or leased so they didn't use
rented property for the wrong purpose
then they changed into a private plane
that was also legally bought when they
reached the US border in Texas
Kathlyn continued his journey to
California and the other escapee went to
Guatemala the plan for the flight was
made in advance and approved by the
Federal Aviation Administration when
crossing the US border both Kaplan and
the pilot gave the customs their real
names so no crime with fake IDs was
committed either and they entered the
country absolutely legally more than
that after returning home Kaplan proudly
announced that his escape was fully
legal as he took care of all the little
details and made no mistakes Mexican
authorities did find a crime that
accompanied the escape which was the use
of accomplices since the businessman
hired a pilot but the businessman never
had to go back to jail as the FBI nor
the Mexican authorities ever tried to
charge him again
a more recent situation when a prisoner
broke out of jail and it didn't add up
to his time there also took place in
Mexico a guy sentenced for 20 years for
drug trafficking managed to escape not
once but twice his first escape was in
2001 and it was 13 years later when he
was caught and put back into jail the
second time he escaped from
maximum-security altiplano prison
outside Mexico City was in 2015 17
months after his second arrest he
designed a complicated construction with
a mile-long tunnel running from the
shower area and a motorcycle inside
running on a rail the tunnel was even
equipped with electricity and moving
along it the drug lord broke the bulbs
to make it harder for the police to find
him and he also got rid of his
localization bracelet before entering
the shower that was one of the only
blind spots in a well supervised jail
thanks to many efforts of the police and
the Mexican government the escapee was
found and arrested again a couple months
later and no extra time was added to his
sentence for these two successful escape
attempts not all prison escapes go
unpunished
but some of them deserve an honorary
mention since they appear to be too
unbelievable to be real yet they all are
here's one a 50 year old man in South
Korea was arrested as he was suspected
of robbery on September 12 2002 just
five days later he managed to escape
from his prison cell thanks to his yoga
skills his 23 years of yoga practice
made it possible for the man to simply
squeeze through the food slot in his
cell bars that was five point nine
inches tall and seventeen point seven
inches wide he'd covered himself in skin
ointment to make it easier to slip
through the whole process only took him
34 seconds while the guards were sound
asleep doctors weren't able to explain
this phenomenon since the skull of an
adult male normally won't fit through
such a small hole
maybe he deflated his head it could
happen now even though he was arrested
again six days later the guy will now
always be proudly nicknamed Korean
Houdini after the incident he was placed
in a cell with a way smaller fruit slaw
have you ever seen the movie catch me if
you can its plot is captivating
not many people know it was inspired by
real life and based on an autobiography
of Frank Abagnale he was sentenced to 12
years of jail for his bold forgery and
impersonation crimes in the 1960s and
was escorted by a marshal who had
forgotten his papers Avondale took
advantage of the situation and convinced
the guards he was an undercover prison
inspector when he got into jail mr.
Avenel got two business cards made by
his friend and accomplice both of them
were obviously fake
one of an FBI agent and one of a prison
inspector the smart criminal told the
guards to call the FBI agent his friends
played the part on the phone and told
the guards to let Avenel out then he
just walked out of the front door to
safety then there was a criminal in the
UK back in 1955 to earn the title of
escape artist thanks to his creative
skills he managed to make a copy of the
jail workshop key using his memory he
captured every detail of the original
key so precisely he was able to
reproduce it and escaped eight months
later he was re-arrested in Ireland when
he was at court in London he once again
escaped while on his way to the bathroom
upon being arrested again
he organized escape number three using
his same trick this time he reproduced
the key to a bathhouse but it was not
his artistic skills that eventually
helped him gain Part II he studied the
laws regarding his case and managed to
stand his ground in 17 court appearances
in 2015 two guys became the only people
in a hundred and seventy years to have
managed to escape from Clinton
correction facility New York they got
out through a maze of tunnels carving
into a pipe they used hacksaw blades
that the prison tailor smuggled for them
and frozen hamburger meat as they were
leaving they left a goodbye note for the
guards wishing them to have a nice day
so which of the escape stories impressed
you the most let us know in the comments
below don't forget to give this video a
like share it with your friends and
click subscribe to stay on the bright
side of life
you